Test purposes

Frequencies
The focus of the test is the proportion of zeroes and ones for the entire sequence.  The purpose of this test 
is to determine whether the number of ones and zeros in a sequence are approximately the same as would 
be expected for a truly random sequence.  The test assesses the closeness of the fraction of ones to 
½
, that 
is, the number of ones and zeroes in a sequence should be about the same.  All subsequent tests depend on 
the passing of this test. 

Blockfrequency
The focus of the test is the proportion of ones within M-bit blocks. The purpose of this test is to determine 
whether the frequency of ones in an M-bit block is approximately M/2, as would be expected under an 
assumption of randomness.  For block size 
M
=1, this test degenerates to test 1, the Frequency (Monobit) 
test. 

Cumulativesums
The focus of this test is the maximal excursion (from zero) of the random walk defined by the cumulative 
sum of adjusted (-1, +1) digits in the sequence.  The purpose of the test is to determine whether the 
cumulative sum of the partial sequences occurring in the tested sequence is too large or too small relative 
to the expected behavior of that cumulative sum for random sequences.  This cumulative sum may be 
considered as a random walk.  For a random sequence, the excursions of the random walk should be near 
zero.  For certain types of non-random sequences, the excursions of this random walk from zero will be 
large. 

Runs Test
he focus of this test is the total number of runs in the sequence, where a run is an uninterrupted sequence 
of identical bits.  A run of length 
k 
consists of exactly 
k 
identical bits and is bounded before and after with 
a bit of the opposite value. The purpose of the runs test is to determine whether the number of runs of nes and zeros of various lengths is as expected for a random sequence.  In particular, this test determines 
whether the oscillation between such zeros and ones is too fast or too slow. 

LongestRun
The focus of the test is the longest run of ones within M-bit blocks. The purpose of this test is to 
determine whether the length of the longest run of ones within the tested sequence is consistent with the 
length of the longest run of ones that would be expected in a random sequence. Note that an irregularity in 
the expected length of the longest run of ones implies that there is also an irregularity in the expected 
length of the longest run of zeroes.  Therefore, only a test for ones is necessary. See Section 4.4. 

Rank
The focus of the test is the rank of disjoint sub-matrices of the entire sequence.  The purpose of this test is 
to check for linear dependence among fixed length substrings of the original sequence.  Note that this test 
also appears in the DIEHARD battery of tests [7